Insurance should not be cheap but good.
If you are planning to buy car insurance
then let me tell you one thing that
you can face problem from any company.  Like
my experience, we bought a car in 2023
and on the recommendation of friends and family,
we also bought insurance from the same agency,
whereas we knew that we
can buy insurance from outside as well and it will be cheaper
and there will be no problem in making a claim.
Still he said that insurance will be easy.
Claim settlement is easy so we took it
and believe me this was a big mistake.
Because the claim took 5 to 6 months.   The
name of the insurance company is National
Insurance and the broker through which it has been taken
is Maruti Suzuki Broking Company.
Both are trusted.  Many people
take it and I also took a claim in
which there was no problem.  So what
is the story?  I took my first claim for Rs 20,000.   There was no
problem in that.  When the claim reached Rs 2 lakh.  It
became a huge amount.  There was a
problem in it and the problem lasted for 5 to 6 months
and I am still facing the problem.  The
accident happened on 24th January and today is
27th May.  And still haven't received a full refund.
Untill untill I will not go to consumer court.
And there's
not a very good Obsession scene either.  RBI allowance is a
good thing.
I did not find the insurance subsidies that helpful at all.
But I have to renew the car insurance.  Keep
one thing in mind before renewing.  If there is a
small claim, you will
not face any problem with any company.
When the insurance claim is big, you will face
problems.
Be prepared for any company.  One more thing you
can do in this is that if you are taking term insurance
then you can split it.   For example, if you
took a term insurance of Rs 1 crore, then you
took a term insurance of Rs 50 lakh with one company.  If you
take a policy of Rs 50 lakh from one company, you will have two
term insurances, so your risk will be less,
tension will also be less and
you will get the claim easily.  Although you may buy the policy
from anywhere, do compare it.  There
are many platforms in the market to compare policies.  I
use this.  You will
find the link in the description.  Enter the car number.
After that you will get the prices
of all the insurances.  And this
is my previous insurance policy and in this
only you will see the expiry date.
30 May 2025.  Yes, I made a claim.
Now you have to pay attention to IDB.  IDB is
generally less than 10%.  If you are not
able to calculate it then
you can take the previous IDB value
from your existing insurance and
enter it here.  After that the IDB value
is calculated.  Now along with this there are some
add ons.  You must take zero depreciation.
Yes, it was in my old policy.
Engine protection was there.
I have had all these four add ons before and I still have to get them.
Now after this filter
I have five best plans.  This is the
cheapest plan of Digit Insurance.  Only
₹7400 something.  But keep in mind that this
insurance is valid till 15,000 km.
But till the year.  After that you will have to recharge the
kilometers.  It is written here.
You can read all the details here.  I had National Insurance
previously.  It is very useless.
Not recommended, I will not consider it at all.
Shriram Oriental Not really the
best two options I see.  One
is Reliance General Insurance has a 98% claim
settlement ratio.  Only 2% of claims
are rejected and ICICI Lambor has a 96.7%
claim settlement ratio.  This is also quite
good.  Ideally, I can buy either Reliance General
Insurance or ICICI LBR.  There
is a slight difference between the two.  Let me tell you.
15,500 km in a year  If your vehicle
runs till then it is valid.  After that you will have to
recharge the kilometers.  As soon as
you feel that you are running out.
In this you get zero depreciation, engine
protection, consumables, invoice to price
everything.  That too for ₹11,240.  And
here you can buy the ICCI Lambor plan.
In this the price increases slightly to
₹13.55.  You do not get any limit in these
cases.  Along with this, you get zero depreciation, engine
protection, invoice price, consumables,
everything.  There are three cashless garages
in my area.  This is being seen.
This is an authorized agency with which I did
not have a good experience at all.  Something else.
There
I see five cashless garages with Reliance, which is another
good thing.  Apart from authorized service centers, there are
other options where you
can get the repair done at a lower price.  And the
biggest problem with Natural Insurance was that there were
only two garages.  Yes, one more
thing to keep in mind is that this amount is excluding
GST.  This means you will have to pay 18% GST on this.
Let us tell you if you want to
buy Reliance General Insurance.
You clicked on the amount, no.
You will cross verify these things once.
And this GST amount has been added to it and the
total amount you have to pay is
₹13,263.  Your experience with a company can be
both good and bad.